GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS
             for Commercial Removals 2020
© 2020, Organisation of Approved Movers
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system or transmitted in any
form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without
the prior written permission of the Publishers.

Terms and Conditions for Commercial Removals (TCCR - AVB 2020)
Edition: Organisation of Approved Movers
Bredewater 26, 2715 CA Zoetermeer
T: 070-3401788
E: info@erkendeverhuizers.nl
www.erkendeverhuizers.nl




TCCR - AVB 2020 © Organisation for Approved Movers                                          Page 2 of 11
TABLE OF CONTENTS


TERMS & CONDITIONS FOR COMMERCIAL REMOVALS 2020


ARTICLE 1 - Definitions                                                                   4
ARTICLE 2 - Scope of Application                                                          5
ARTICLE 3 - Obligations of the Client                                                     5
ARTICLE 4 - Liability of the Client                                                       5
ARTICLE 5 - Obligations of the Commercial Remover                                         6
ARTICLE 6 - Liability of the Commercial Remover                                           7
ARTICLE 7 - Claim notification                                                            9
ARTICLE 8 - Damage repair                                                                 9
ARTICLE 9 - Rights holder                                                                 9
ARTICLE 10 - Termination of commercial removal contract                                   9
ARTICLE 11 - Terms of payment                                                            10
ARTICLE 12 - Securities                                                                  10
ARTICLE 13 - Competent court                                                             11




The AVB 2020 (TCCR) was established within the AVB sounding board group, which is made up of
representatives from the business community, Organisatie voor Erkende Verhuizers (OEV)
(Organisation of Approved Movers) and Transport en Logistiek Nederland (TLN) (Netherlands
Transport and Logistics).


AVB 2020 © Organisation for Approved Movers                                            Page 3 of 11
TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COMMERCIAL REMOVALS (TCCR)

ARTICLE 1 - DEFINITIONS
For the purposes of these terms and conditions, the terms below are defined as follows:
1. TCCR: the Terms and Conditions for Commercial Removals most recently adopted by the trade
     association: Organisation of Approved Movers and filed with the Chamber of Commerce
     Rotterdam under number 40413355.
2. Company: any company or institution, whether or not independently established, with or
     without a profit motive.
3. Commercial removal: any contract for a removal, both internal and external, of items ordered
     by:
     a. a legal entity (company/enterprise);
     b. a (natural) person operating a business or practising an independent profession;
     c. a (government) institution.
4. Client: the party ordering the Commercial Remover to perform the commercial removal.
5. Commercial Remover: the person who has undertaken towards the Employer to perform a
     commercial removal.
6. Items: all matters that by their nature form part of the company's inventory. These include
     stocks of goods to the extent their transport takes place exclusively under the commercial
     removal. Other commercial stocks are not included.
7. Hazardous substances are substances prohibited by Appendices A and B of the European
     Agreement concerning the International Carriage of Goods by Road (Treaty Series 1959, 171),
     including its subsequent amendments, or permitted only under certain conditions, with the
     exception of those substances or items carried in accordance with the conditions set out in
     section 1.1.3.
8. Ancillary work: work commissioned, which was not agreed upon when the removal contract
     was concluded. This is regarded as additional work.
9. Removal price: the financial fee for the commercial removal.
10. Acceptance: the time at which the items have been placed at the disposal of the Commercial
     Remover for the purpose of packing or (partial) disassembly or transport.
11. Delivery: the time at which the items have been placed at the location where possible indicated
     for that purpose, after they have been unpacked or assembled at their destination in
     accordance with Article 5 paragraph 5 of these terms and conditions.
12. Loss claim: a (formal) claim for compensation for damage suffered.
13. Force majeure: circumstances that a prudent and professional Commercial Remover has been
     unable to avoid and to the extent such a Commercial Remover has been unable to prevent the
     respective consequences.
14. Delay: when the items have not been delivered within the agreed time or when no time limit
     has been agreed, when the actual duration of the commercial removal exceeds the time that
     was expected to be needed by a competent Commercial Remover under normal circumstances.
15. CMR: Convention on the Contract for the International Carriage of Goods by Road (Geneva
     1956), as supplemented by the Protocols of 1978 and 2008.
16. Postponement: the authority of the Client to postpone the performance of the agreed
     commercial removal to a later time.
17. Cancellation: the entitlement of one of the parties to terminate the agreement.




AVB 2020 © Organisation for Approved Movers                                                Page 4 of 11
ARTICLE 2 - SCOPE OF APPLICATION
1. Except where mandatory law provides otherwise, these general terms & conditions shall apply
    to commercial removals within the Netherlands.
2. Cross-border business removals are subject to the CMR Convention and the provisions of these
    general terms & conditions, which are not contrary to the CMR Convention.
3. Without prejudice to the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, the provisions of Book 8, Title 13,
    Section 4 of the Dutch Civil Code (DCC), which do not conflict with these terms and conditions,
    shall apply in addition. Contrary to the provisions of Section 1170, paragraph of Book 8 of the
    Dutch Civil Code, the contract shall be deemed to be a removal contract, irrespective of the
    nature of the items to be removed.

ARTICLE 3 - OBLIGATIONS OF THE CLIENT
The client is obliged:
1. To furnish in good time all information and particulars which he knows or ought to know are
    relevant to the Commercial Remover. This shall enable the Commercial Remover to form an
    accurate picture of the commercial removal in terms of volume, weight, handling of the items,
    length of time, applicability of special regulations and necessary security measures. The
    Commercial Remover shall have the right to examine the accuracy of the information provided.
2. To inform the Commercial Remover in writing of the weight of very heavy items, such as safes
    and machines, and of the maximum permissible floor load of the premises in which such an
    object is to be placed. This shall also apply to the maximum permissible floor load of the
    sections across which the item must be moved in the building.
3. To ensure that the Commercial Remover shall be in possession of all data and documents
    relating to the intended commercial removal in good time, which are required of the Client as a
    consequence of statutory regulations, such as customs regulations and regulations relating to
    the carriage and handling of hazardous substances.
4. To indemnify the Commercial Remover against claims by third parties resulting from the non-
    performance of his/her obligations under these conditions.
5. To ensure that:
    a. the items to be removed shall be placed at the disposal of the Commercial Remover at the
          agreed time and place.
    b. the Commercial Remover is enabled to carry out the commercial removal efficiently.
    c. the place of destination is easily accessible before the commencement of the commercial
          removal and the necessary facilities (such as electricity and lifts) are available at both the
          place of departure and the place of destination and can be used in the performance of the
          commercial removal.
    d. the packing material left behind by the Commercial Remover at destination is returned to
          the Commercial Remover within the period provided for in the contract, and in its absence,
          within a period of one month.
6. Pay the (additional) costs, if:
    a. an item placed in accordance with Article 5 paragraph 2 must be reinstated on the
         instructions of the principal.
    b. the commercial removal under article 4, paragraph 6, is postponed or otherwise changed,
         and the Commercial Remover will be indemnified accordingly.

ARTICLE 4 - LIABILITY OF THE CLIENT
1. The Client shall, in addition to his civil liability under Book 6, Sections 170 and 171
    of the Civil Code, be liable for the acts and omissions of all persons whose services he makes use
    of for the performance of the commercial removal, to the extent such
    persons are acting within the scope of their activities.




AVB 2020 © Organisation for Approved Movers                                                    Page 5 of 11
2.   If the Client has failed to comply with his obligations under article 3, he shall compensate the
     Commercial Remover for the resulting loss or damage.
3.   Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this article, the Commercial Remover may terminate
     the commercial removal contract if the Client has entirely failed to perform his obligations under
     article 3 paragraph 5 subsection a. Such termination may not take place until the Commercial
     Remover has set the Client a final term in writing and the Client has not yet fulfilled his
     obligations by the time of the expiry of such final term. If setting a time limit would disrupt the
     operation of his business in a disproportionate manner, the Commercial Remover may also
     terminate the contract without setting a time limit.
4.   Notice of termination based on the preceding paragraph must be given in writing and the
     agreement shall terminate upon receipt of such notice.
5.   If at the agreed time and place, the Client has placed only part of the items to be removed at the
     Commercial Remover’s disposal, the Commercial Remover shall, at the Client's request, remove
     the items provided against payment of the removal price already agreed.
6.   If, at the Client's request, the removal is postponed or the contract of commercial removal is
     otherwise amended, the Client shall compensate the Commercial Remover for all necessary
     costs and disadvantages resulting from the postponement or amendment of the commercial
     removal contract. The desired modification must be practicable for the Commercial Remover
     and must not disrupt the business operations of the Commercial Remover.
7.   For postponement as referred to in paragraph 6, a new removal date must be agreed, which
     shall be no more than three months after the original removal date. If the commercial removal
     does not take place within this period, the contract shall be deemed to have been terminated. In
     that event the Client shall owe the same compensation as set out in section 10 of these
     conditions in the event of termination within 0 - 5 days prior to the scheduled date of removal.
8.   If the Client has not fulfilled his obligation as mentioned in article 3 paragraph 5 sub c, then the
     new value of the packaging material is considered to be the damage mentioned in paragraph 2
     of this article.

ARTICLE 5 - OBLIGATIONS OF THE COMMERCIAL REMOVER
The Commercial Remover is obliged:
1. to take delivery of the goods to be removed at the agreed time and place. The provisions of
    paragraph 5 of this article shall be taken into account;
2. to deliver the goods to be removed at the destination, at the place and in the condition
    indicated by the Client, in which they have been placed at the Commercial Remover’s disposal
    for packing or disassembly or for transport pursuant to paragraph 5 of this article.;
3. to load and unload the items to be moved;
4. to complete a commenced commercial removal without delay;
5. if agreed in writing, the items which, in view of their nature and/or the manner of transport,
    should be taken apart and/or packed, should be taken apart and/or packed and unpacked
    and/or put together at destination;
6. to carry out all ancillary activities against payment of the resulting additional costs, unless this
    would disrupt the operation of his business in a disproportionate manner;
7. inform the Client of the way in which the goods must be offered for transport;
8. to inform the Client to the best of his ability about the customs regulations in force and other
    formalities to be completed for the performance of the commercial removal;
9. to place the packaging material necessary for the commercial removal at the Commercial
    Remover’s disposal;
10. to apply reasonable care with regard to the handling of the documents and papers received by
    him, on the understanding that the Commercial Remover shall not be obliged to examine the
    accuracy and completeness of such documents and papers;
11. to request instructions from the Client, if for any reason whatsoever the performance of the
    commercial removal is or becomes impossible. In the absence of such instructions he may, as a


AVB 2020 © Organisation for Approved Movers                                                    Page 6 of 11
    competent and professional Commercial Remover, take all measures which he considers to be in
    the interest of the Client. The resulting additional costs shall be borne by the person responsible
    for part the reason for the inability to perform the commercial removal;
12. to take out, at the Client's request and for the Client's benefit, a separate insurance policy
    covering the risks for which the Commercial Remover shall not be liable. The costs of such
    insurance shall be borne by the Client;
13. to indemnify and hold the client harmless for claims of parties (third parties) other than the
    parties to the contract, which claims are the result of the failure to fulfil his obligations arising
    from these terms and conditions. This shall not apply if claims of third parties cannot reasonably
    be attributed to non-fulfilment by the Commercial Remover of his obligations.

ARTICLE 6 - THE LIABILITY OF THE COMMERCIAL REMOVER
1. If the Commercial Remover fails to perform his obligations incumbent upon him under article 5
    of these conditions, the Commercial Remover shall be liable for the resulting loss or damage.
    This shall not apply in the case of force majeure and in so far as otherwise provided elsewhere in
    this article.
2. The Commercial Remover shall not avoid liability under the preceding paragraph by appealing
    to:
    a. the deficiency of the vehicle used for the commercial removal;
    b. the deficiency of the material which he uses in the execution of the order, unless this has
          been provided to him by the Client; material shall not be understood to mean a ship, an
          aircraft or a railway wagon in which the removal van used for the commercial removal is
          situated;
    c. the inadequacy of support points used for the attachment of hoisting equipment;
    d. any accident to the removal items caused by third parties whose actions are not at the
          client's expense.
3. Without prejudice to paragraphs 6 and 7 of this article, the Commercial Remover who fails to
    perform his obligations under the contract of commercial removal, shall nevertheless not be
    liable for the resulting loss or damage, in so far as such failure to perform is due to the special
    risks inherent in one or more of the following circumstances:
    a. the packing or dismantling, or the unpacking or assembly of removal items by the Client or
          with the help of any person or means provided by the Client for this purpose of his own
          accord;
    b. the Client's choice – even though the Commercial Remover offered him another option - of
          a method of packing or performance of the contract of commercial removal which differs
          from the customary methods used for the agreed commercial removal;
    c. the presence among the removal of items in respect of which the Commercial Remover,
          had he been aware of their presence and their nature, would have taken special measures;
    d. the nature or condition of the removal items themselves, which are exposed to total or
          partial loss or to damage as a result of causes related to such nature or condition, such as:
              – live animals;
              – plants dying off;
              – money, monetary papers, jewels, jewels made of precious metal or other precious
                  objects, unless the Client handed over the items mentioned to him separately and
                  stating the quantity and value before the commencement of the commercial
                  removal;
              – failure or malfunction of electrical, electronic or mechanical equipment;
              – damage to or loss of personal property of the client's employees;
4. Where the Commercial Remover proves that, having regard to the circumstances of the case,
    the non-performance of the obligations incumbent upon him under article 5, paragraphs 2 and
    4, of these conditions may have resulted from one or more of the special risks mentioned in
    paragraph 3 of this article, it shall be presumed that the non-performance is caused by this.


AVB 2020 © Organisation for Approved Movers                                                    Page 7 of 11
5.  In the event of delay as referred to in article 5, paragraph 4, of these conditions, the Commercial
    Remover shall be obliged - if the rightsholder proves that this has caused loss or damage - to pay
    compensation for such loss or damage, to be agreed upon, which compensation shall not exceed
    the removal price.
6. The Commercial Remover shall, in addition to his civil liability pursuant to Book 6, Sections 170
    and 171 of the Civil Code, also be liable for the acts and omissions of all persons engaged by him
    in the performance of the commercial removal, in so far as such persons are acting within the
    scope of their employment.
7. The Commercial Remover shall not be liable for the acts and omissions of persons other than
    those mentioned in paragraph 6 of this article, present on the business premises at the time of
    the commercial removal, if such acts and omissions cause damage to the items or delay in the
    performance of the commercial removal.
8. The compensation due by the Commercial Remover as a result of his failing to perform his
    obligations under article 5, paragraph 2, of these conditions shall be limited:
    a. in the case of a commercial removal exclusively within a building up to an amount of €
          50,000 per commercial removal;
    b. in all other cases within the Netherlands up to an amount of € 50,000 per transport vehicle
          consignment;
    c. in the case of commercial removals subject to the CMR Convention, the liability of the
          Commercial Remover under article 23 of the CMR shall be limited to 8 1/3 Special Drawing
          Rights (SDR) for each kilogramme of gross weight missing.
9. The Client may, subject to the Commercial Remover's consent and against payment of a fee to
    be agreed (such as a premium for the insurance to be taken out by the Commercial Remover),
    declare in writing a value of the removal goods exceeding the maximum stated in paragraph 8 of
    this article. In that case, the amount declared shall replace this maximum. In any event, this
    amount may not exceed the actual value of the items.
10. If the Commercial Remover fails to perform his obligations under article 5, paragraphs 1, 3, 5
    and 8, the Client may terminate the commercial removal contract. Such termination may take
    place only after he has allowed the Commercial Remover a time limit in which his obligations
    must be performed and if after such time the Commercial Remover has still not performed his
    obligations.
11. After termination, the Commercial Remover shall be obliged to compensate the Client for the
    additional costs which the latter proves to have incurred as a result of the termination. In any
    event, such compensation shall not exceed the agreed removal price.
12. If the Commercial Remover fails to perform his obligations under article 5, paragraphs 6, 9 and
    10, of these conditions, the Commercial Remover shall compensate the Client for the loss or
    damage which the latter proves to have suffered. In any event, such compensation shall not
    exceed the agreed removal price.
13. If the Commercial Remover fails to comply with his obligation referred to in article 5, paragraph
    11, of these conditions, the Commercial Remover shall be liable on the same basis as a
    contractor (Book 7, Section 400 et seq. of the Civil Code) for the consequences of the loss or
    improper handling of the documents handed over to him. In any event, the compensation due
    by him shall not exceed the compensation due in case of loss of the items.




AVB 2020 © Organisation for Approved Movers                                                  Page 8 of 11
Note:
Article 6 of these terms & conditions increases the liability of the Commercial Remover in respect of
his liability as laid down in Book 8, Section 1095 of the Civil Code.
By virtue of Book 8, Section 1102 of the Civil Code, this increase of liability is null and void, unless
article 6 of these terms & conditions is laid down in a separate document containing the commercial
removal contract. It is advised to enclose these terms & conditions each time again to the commercial
removal contract, by attaching them to the contract and/or by sending them along with the contract
in an e-mail.

ARTICLE 7 – CLAIM NOTIFICATION AND LOSS CLAIM
1. If the items are delivered by the Commercial Remover with apparent damage or loss, and the
    Client does not communicate any reservation in writing to the Commercial Remover upon or
    immediately after acceptance of the items, the Commercial Remover shall be deemed to have
    delivered the items in the same condition as in which he received them. The claim notification
    must state the general nature of the loss or damage.
2. If there is no visible damage or loss and the Client does not, within one week after acceptance of
    the items, make a reservation in writing stating the general nature of the damage or the loss to
    the Commercial Remover, then also in this case, it shall be presumed that the Commercial
    Remover has delivered the items in the same condition as in which he received them.
3. A claim must be submitted in writing or electronically to the Commercial Remover.

ARTICLE 8 - REPAIR OF DAMAGE
1. Repair of damage or replacement of lost items may only take place after agreement has been
    reached by or on behalf of the parties on the amount of the damage or solution for the damage.
2. Where, under the provisions of the present conditions, the Commercial Remover is obliged to
    pay compensation for total or partial loss of the items, such compensation shall be calculated
    pursuant to the value which the items would have had at the time and place where they should
    have been delivered.*
3. The value of the goods shall be determined according to the stock market price or, failing that,
    according to the prevailing market price. And if this is absent, according to the usual value of
    goods of the same type, quality or age.
4. In the event of a dispute about the value of an item, the value shall be determined by an
    independent appraiser appointed by mutual agreement, and the associated costs shall be
    shared by both parties.

* In the case of commercial removals subject to the CMR Convention, contrary to Article 8, paragraph
2, the value of the items shall be calculated pursuant to the value of the items at the time and place
of their receipt by the Commercial Remover (sender's value).

ARTICLE 9 - RIGHTSHOLDER
1. Only the Client or his agent shall have the right in respect of the Commercial Remover to deliver
    the items in accordance with the obligations incumbent upon the Commercial Remover.

ARTICLE 10 - TERMINATION OF COMMERCIAL REMOVAL CONTRACT
1. Before the items are placed at the disposal of the Commercial Remover, the Client shall have the
    right to terminate the contract in writing. He shall be obliged to pay the Commercial Remover
    the agreed removal price in accordance with the following graduated percentage:

      Cancellation before the scheduled              Percentage of the agreed
      removal date within the following number       removal price due:
      of working days:
      0 - 5 working days                                           100 %


AVB 2020 © Organisation for Approved Movers                                                    Page 9 of 11
      6 - 10 working days                                            75 %
      11- 19 working days                                            50 %
      20 working days and more                                       20 %

ARTICLE 11 - INVOICING AND TERMS OF PAYMENT
1. The Commercial Remover shall each time, in accordance with the arrangements made, submit
    an invoice for the services rendered, or, if no further arrangements have been made in this
    respect, after the commercial removal ordered has been performed, or, in the case of long-term
    instructions (longer than one month), on a monthly basis, or at the latest one month after work
    has been performed in connection with such instructions. In this connection the Commercial
    Remover shall be entitled to invoice electronically.
2. The Client shall be under the obligation to pay the removal price, and anything due and payable
    under any other arrangements relating to the commercial removal, or to pay further agreed
    costs relating to the removal items, within fourteen days from the date of invoice.
3. If the amounts referred to in paragraph 2 of this article have not been paid at the time referred
    to in that paragraph, the Client shall be obliged to pay the statutory interest thereon pursuant to
    Book 6, Section 119a of the Dutch Civil Code, and with effect from the day on which these
    payments should have been made up to and including the day of payment.
4. The Commercial Remover shall have the right to charge all extrajudicial and judicial costs
    necessarily incurred for the collection of the removal price and other amounts as referred to in
    paragraph 2 of this article to the party owing the removal price and/or other costs. The
    extrajudicial collection costs shall be due from the moment the debtor is in default. The
    extrajudicial collection costs shall be calculated on the basis of the Compensation for
    Extrajudicial Collection Costs Decree (Bulletin of Acts and Decrees 2012/141) or the latest
    version of that Decree.
5. The full removal price, the costs due on the basis of other agreements relating to the
    commercial removal and further costs relating to the items to be removed shall also be due if
    the items to be removed are not or only partly delivered or delivered damaged at destination.
6. Any appeal to offsetting claims for payment of the removal price, of costs due under other
    agreements relating to the commercial removal or of further costs involved in the removal items
    against claims based on another reason, shall not be permitted.
7. If, at the time of settlement, a dispute arises about the amount due or if its determination
    requires a calculation that cannot be carried out swiftly, the party claiming delivery shall be
    obliged to pay forthwith the part for which the parties do not dispute the amount due and to
    provide security for the payment of the part or part of the amount that is disputed by him or
    her, the amount of which has not yet been determined.
8. The Commercial Remover may proceed to warehousing or storage if the provision of security as
    provided for in paragraph 6 of this article is refused. Storage shall take place under the
    applicability of the Dutch Storage Conditions, latest version, filed at the office of the Clerk of the
    District Court in Rotterdam on 15 November 1995.

ARTICLE 12 - SECURITIES
1. The Commercial Remover shall have a right of lien on items and documents in his possession in
    connection with the commercial removal contract in respect of any person requiring their
    delivery. He shall not have such right if, at the time when he received the removal items, he had
    reason to doubt the authority of the Client to place the removal items to his disposal.
2. The Commercial Remover may furthermore exercise the right of lien against the Client in respect
    of anything still due to him in connection with previous commercial removal contracts.
3. All the items, documents and monetary value in possession of the Commercial Remover in
    connection with the commercial removal contract shall serve him as a lien for all claims which
    he has against the Client pursuant to regulations.



AVB 2020 © Organisation for Approved Movers                                                    Page 10 of 11
4.   Except in the cases where the Client is in a state of bankruptcy or in which he has been granted
     suspension of payment or in which he has been declared subject to a debt rescheduling scheme
     for natural persons, the Commercial Remover shall never have the right to sell the pledged item
     without the permission of the court of justice as provided for in Book 3, Section 248 paragraph 2
     of the Civil Code.

ARTICLE 13 - CHOICE OF LAW
1. All agreements based on these Terms & Conditions for Commercial Removals (TCCR) shall be
    governed by Dutch law.
2. All disputes between the parties concerning these Terms and Conditions (TCCR) shall be
    submitted for settlement to the sub-district court or the district court of the jurisdiction of the
    place of domicile or place of business of the Commercial Remover.



These Terms and Conditions have been translated from Dutch to English. The Dutch text is leading.
Errors are reserved.




AVB 2020 © Organisation for Approved Movers                                                    Page 11 of 11
